[Music]
diamonds from Heaven it was LSD in the
mind of the universe was that was that
the title yes that was a publisher title
but my title while I was writing the
book was always diamonds from Heaven
okay beautiful absolutely I've been a
fan of your books actually Colin and I
uh talk about you regularly about your
books I've been a fan I reincarnation
was wonderful and then the one in the
middle and then then the LSD uh books
been fabulous so thank you a lot of the
people here do not know your research
methods so kind of what I would um
describe you as kind of is an Explorer
of the outer reaches of the cosmos
really kind of in search of the truth of
reality and um really what it means to
be kind of human uh in in in this
reality and um your research method is
is deeply interesting and I would love
if we you could start us off by telling
us about about what that is and and what
your work has
been well what we all share in the
animistic community is the belief that
nature is infused with Consciousness
it's fused with mind and soul uh and of
course now we know how vast the the
physical universe is and the question
becomes how large is the mind of the
universe how deep is it and so I was
just out of graduate school in 1978 and
I finished in philosophy of religion and
I met the work of stanislav Gro who many
of you know uh one of the foremost
thinkers in the transpersonal psychology
community in the Psychedelic community
and I read his book Realms of the human
unconscious and my life pivoted with
that book because I immediately saw that
his research was relevant not only to
Clinical Psychology but also to
philosophy that it would he was offering
a method to actually safely and
systematically explore the deepest
levels of
consciousness wherein lay the answers to
the philosophical questions that I was
carrying coming out of a training in
religious studies so in 1979 I began
what became a 20-year Journey working
with LSD
and it was 19 79 LSD is what Stan had
done his research with and it's what I
chose to continue with if I were doing
it today I would have a more Diversified
cocktail of aasa soide been more but I
worked with LSD and I chose to work with
very high doses for reasons that are too
complicated to go into now but that had
a profound impact on the work because it
not only changed How Deep The went work
the work went but it changed how wide it
it went uh the field of Consciousness
that I took in these
transformational exercises expanded with
the power of the State of Consciousness
that I was entering to enter into these
exercises uh so basically I did this
work in standard Pro graian protocol
totally isolated from the world with the
sitter a trained clinical psychologist
sitter uh um I did it at home in a
controlled environment totally
internally focused not any with any
contact of the outside world amplifying
the states of awareness with carefully
selected music designed to empower the
states of Consciousness in which you
basically just shatter your mind you in
in essentially working at these levels
you just shatter your mind and your mind
dissolves out into subtler and subtler
forms
are aspects of
reality uh and it became a systematic
exploration of what I think of as the
mind of the Universe I hesitate to call
it the Divine though sometimes I do it's
just because the Divine has so many
culturally infused uh qualities in
history that I'd rather avoid um so I
think of it as the mind of the
universe uh and I did this work for 20
years uh always keeping very careful
records and whatnot and and then I I
digested those experiences for another
20 years because this is these are not
immediately transparent experiences
they're very complex and interwoven and
they involve many levels of reality
being orchestrated in the same kind of
title surges of these states and there
was a systematic instruction I found
that one session more or less started
where the other session stopped when you
work in this systematic fashion there
was a progressive deepening and
deepening and deepening and so it it
just took years for me
to understand what the universe was
showing me and where it was taking me
and I was being shown things I mean I
always had a sense of a systematic
encounter with an intelligence that was
orchestrating my experience in dialogue
with me uh not taking any form never
taking any any deity form or any
archetypal form but always when pressed
dissolving into deeper and deeper layers
of
Infinity uh anyway so that is
cumulatively the story that I'm telling
in LSD in the mind of the universe and
would you say Chris that this is an
objective reality that if anybody that
did a similar method I mean I think I
think what you did was incredibly brave
but would would everybody kind of Reach
This unfolding that you did uh using
that method or is that not possible to
say no I think I think it is possible to
say I think Stan gr's work allows us to
say it uh and where he's dealing with
integrating the experiences of thousands
of people and I'm only talking
integrating my experiences but my
experiences fit comfortably within the
larger Matrix that gr's uh work has
explored and it's a complicated answer
because on the one hand I want to say
yes and the other hand I have to qualify
that immediately because when you begin
this work these substances only amplify
Consciousness they don't give you an
experience they don't take you a
particular place they amplify your mind
and because each of us has a different
life story then the mind which is
Amplified is different and we therefore
when an amplified mind engages the
deeper mind of the universe what comes
forward will be in the beginning
somewhat unique and will reflect our
individual history and that's why these
substances are very helpful for healing
uh they they evoke our unconscious and
therefore they evoke our problems and
it's an individual experience but if you
keep going farther if you press to the
limits of of your time space identity if
you press to the limits of what your
individual history can hold and go
through this transformation we call ego
death
then you begin to open into spiritual
reality farther removed from your own
personal history and that's when the
experiences begin to overlap that's when
they begin to uh converge
now my understanding is that spiritual
reality is not simply something you
enter and pluck fruit from like plucking
an apple from a tree it's interactive
it's always interactive so there's a
participatory equality to our
experiences so the mind that we bring to
the
encounter acts as a seed Catalyst that
crystallizes a certain set of
experiences from the infinite potential
of the mind of the universe and then as
we internalize those experiences and are
purified by those experiences it changes
the seed mind and then we it catalyzes
an even deeper level of Secrets From the
universe so it's a both and situation
participatory but once you understand
the the cycle of participation then I
think the universe that we discover is
coherent and consistent my universe is
the same universe that is discovered by
uh contemplative monks the mystical
Traditions the near-death episode
Traditions there are degrees of depth
and that we have to be careful because
um you can reach a point where you think
oh this is what the reality is and it
turns out well no this is what reality
is at this level of reality but you can
pop that and go into a deeper level of
reality and things change a
bit one thing that I find really
exciting about your work is that we talk
about practices you know that finding
the right practices to find the cracks
kind of in ourselves to get back to a
much porous expanded way way of being
and yet these practices take repetition
and tenaciousness and everything and and
you have used a different method here
you've you've used what what one might
kind of think of as a fast track to some
of these experiences I mean it's a very
difficult method and I'm sure not one
that you would kind of recommend to a
lot of people but that that feels for me
where the excitement of your work is as
you fast tracked a lot of slower
practices and possibly got to the edge
of the map that a lot of these
contemplative practices have got to um I
feel as though you've managed to go
further than than much that I've seen
before on kind of what what the
underlying nature of reality is would
you say that's true it is a fast track
except uh it's a fast track that doesn't
allow any bypass
so the fact that it's a fast track means
it's a much more
intensely uh concentrated track so
purification which in a conventional
spiritual path would be drawn out over
years can take place within days and as
any woman who's given birth knows a
short labor is not necessarily an easier
labor it it's just much much more
intense and this is true for this type
of practice true the purifications that
one goes through in order to acclimate
to these subtler and cleaner and clearer
states of reality those purifications
and detoxifications are extremely
intense I mean they they send you in
convulsions across the floor in throwing
up constantly coming and going uh and
they require uh a systematic
purification of your lifestyle just as
any traditional spiritual practice does
and I want to emphasize that
the states of Consciousness that I
touched for hours at a time we usually
only learn about these realities from
the work of contemplative Mystics who
have a certain sense that they abide in
these realities and I emphasize that
this is a practice not of abiding it's a
it's a temporary access it's only
temporary immersion in these states and
I don't want to confuse temporary
immersion from abiding immersion all
honor to the great ones who abide in
these realities you know this is
different this is temporary access very
very intense
purification but you don't come away
with permanent access embedded in your
nature to these
realities What You Come Away with are
seeds of transcendence or seed
experiences which you then have to
nurture within your your daily spiritual
practice you have to nurture them within
your embodied physical existence and I
also want to mention that these
practices in the earlier times in
history have tended to be associated
with a dissociative spirituality so the
goal was to get up into Transcendence
and get away from Earth you know so
these are the up andout cosmologies of
the last five exal age religions the
last 5,000 years the cosmology that
emerged in my work is very different it
wasn't about getting
Transcendence it was Transcendence in
service of incarnation Transcendence and
service of deeper integration it was
about opening up and letting in as much
of the universe as possible and then
going through the Transformations that
would allow this energy to live in the
historical body and giving me at one
point insights into
where the evolutionary intellig was
taking the Human family as a whole I
began this work thinking in terms of a
personal model of transformation but
things happened that just shattered that
model and I began to understand that I
was had been drawn into a collective
transformation and that my my so-called
individual work was part of a
collective process which then naturally
lead yielded some insights into our
Collective family family Human family
evolutionary trajectory fantastic and I
want to ask you about that in great
depth in a minute because for me that's
kind of the exciting um thing that
you discovered if you like but first of
all I'd love to ask you about the
aliveness and intelligence in the
universe then um we are talking about um
the aliveness and intelligence in
everything around us you know in humans
being just one node of that but just
kind of as is everything um an animate
World an animate Universe I just
wondered if you could summarize your um
understandings of the aliveness in the
universe and and how layered that is and
how deep that goes how big it is um yes
what did you what have you
gleaned well you're asking a lot because
it you know the universe is so vast and
the mind of the universe has so many
layers to it and those layers are of
course all complexly interwoven and it's
all alive and it's all intelligent and
it's it's everywhere we dig into the
universe of course we discover aliveness
and intelligence we we're finding that
we can't dig in anywhere and not
encounter this intelligence this living
intelligence uh so when you dig into the
mind of the universe you find layers of
intelligence operating there there are
layers of int of intelligence operating
in the biosphere operating in the
incarnational uh rhythms of a planet and
I began to experience at one point for
example reincarnation the I had gone
into I'm sorry to cut so many corners
here but there's no way to do it except
jump into it go into States Of
Consciousness in which time was
radically dilated
not eternity not timelessness but
radical dilations of time and dilations
of of of personal boundaries so
dissolving into my human family becoming
the Human family and from that
perspective experiencing reincarnation
the pulse of
reincarnation taking place all of us
together as a single
organism incarnating Generation by
generation and I experienced whole
lifetimes incarnating in Generations
living their lives dying and returning
into the spiritual reality and there was
an
intelligence to this entire process so
that all of our what I had previously
thought of as individual Karma
individual challenging individual
transformation all of our individual
Karma was part of a a vast network of
exquisitly tuned Collective Karma and
our and history was expressing The
rhythms of collective transformation
through the medium of our individual
transformation just one example and then
going deeper beginning to experience the
the pulse of the entire universe as a
single living
organism and when you when you dissolve
at into that level of Oneness you know
the Buddhists have a word for they talk
about
Nirvana uh blown out self is blown out
or shunyata emptiness of
self when you experience the world as
one in any
scale then you experience that there are
no permanent boundaries between yourself
and the world so literally there is no
private self and so the self kind of
pops and life runs through you you run
through life and the whole of Life
breathes as one it breathes together uh
as platinus said
so everywhere you touch it the world is
intelligent at the very end of my
journey after in the 70th session out of
73 I did 73 sessions in the 70th session
I was taken deep deep deep into what I
call Deep time farther into time than I
had ever been taken before and given a
series of
visions and one of those Visions had to
do with
experiencing in some way from my
perspective and my
history the large story of what was
happening in the universe and I
experienced reincarnation I was
experiencing the same deep pattern and I
experience stars of light shooting out
of time and space shoot shoting into the
universe and
I I understood that these were what I
call Diamond Souls these were the
fruition of a reincarnation process
creating a a diamond
pure soul that could explore the
spiritual World in Dimensions previously
unavailable to it that time and space
was creating Diamond Souls over vast
periods of time so so layers and layers
and layers of intelligence operating at
different
levels
so when I read your book Chris I mean
it's literally mindblowing I mean it
it's kind of it feels as though it's
science fiction or it's in the Realms of
Science Fiction and yet for me there was
nothing in there that didn't sound right
you know it just kind of has that
feeling of ah yes I understand this and
it feels right to to me um and I'd love
to talk to you about the evolutionary
process you touched on it a bit there
but let's go into that in more detail
but first of all reincarnation
because that is something that obviously
we don't all um feel is true but it you
you did earlier work on the subject of
reincarnation and just before we go on
to the evolutionary um story that you've
seen could you talk about a little bit
about reincarnation and your work on it
and why you believe that that is what's
happening well I did I wrote my first
book on reincarnation because I thought
it was such an essential principle
because the our philosophical roads
divide if you think we only are on earth
one time or we're on Earth multiple
times those lead to different visions of
reality and today I think we have
overwhelming empirical evidence that
reincarnation is simply true it's a fact
of life I think Ian Stevenson at the
University of Virginia and his study of
young children around the world who have
spontaneous memories of their most
immediate life he's just documented
hundreds and hundreds and hundreds of
these children uh and his his research
has been challenged but it's still it's
holding up and I think he is the Charles
Darwin of reincarnation studies and then
we have past life therapies uh people
coming in highly qualified people
healing using past life access to past
life memories to heal present life
traumas that this to me it's just an
empirical fact of life so after living
it takes a long time to S of live in a
reincarnation Universe to understand the
implications of the the fact that
there's this pulse of life and that all
of us have been here multiple times and
all of us have deeper histories with
place with people with projects and that
we're always starting something and
we're continuing something in one
Lifetime and we're doing something
that's going to be continued in another
lifetime that that this overlapping
complexity so that I don't see little
children as little anymore and I don't
see old people as old anymore sometimes
little children are deeply old in Soul
and old people are sometimes very young
in Soul and so it's you you just tuned
to a different level now I had that in
the early stages of my psychedelic work
and in the early stages of my
psychedelic work I was taken into some
of the nuts and bolts of reincarnation
in karma and then that became kind of
ground one uh as I began to be taken
into the Human family and to experience
the Human family evolving and growing
through
reincarnation this to me reincarnation
is simply the uh higher Octave of
evolution it's The Cutting Edge of
evolution in our particular species
where Evolution CH was trying to change
whole
species reincarnation is evolving
individuals within certain species and I
don't think just human species I think
somewhere lower down the line
reincarnation begins to turn in
Gate uh and then the question becomes
well where is reincarnation taking us if
we are reincarnating so many times where
are we going what's go what's the whole
project of it what's the purpose of it
and to determine to answer the question
what's the purpose of a reincarnating
species is complicated because once you
understand that every human being on the
planet is reincarnating with a purpose
its specific
purpose then you realize the full breath
of the living experience of of human
being the breath of what's being learned
that what humanity is learning is just
enormous and when we try to say well
this is the purpose of life we have a
tendency to sort of take a purpose that
we can identify with and maybe
overgeneralize it to Encompass all
purposes so we really have to look at
the whole of the Human family and just
State the whole of the things that
people are learning to even begin to
come up with some generality that
encompasses them all you see what I mean
so so in some cases uh we can be
learning love we can be learning
generosity we can be learning strength
of self we can be learning uh physical
defense we can be learning surrendering
physical defense what one person is
growing into in one lifetime another
person may be growing out out of and
both of them are living their
Truth at a process
level most of the Eastern religions
basically say yes you grow you activate
the chakras you bring higher and higher
levels of consciousness online but when
your Consciousness opens up to Divine
Essence when it opens up to the the you
that is more real than any of your
individual private incarnational 's the
Divine you the ESS you when you open up
to that then you reached Enlightenment
what the Hindus call Moka means you can
excape you can leave so once you wake up
then let's get out of here there's
better places to be than Earth so it's
an up and out
cosmology but what happened in my uh
sessions was different than that uh I
reached a point about halfway on my
journey when all of my former lives
began to come into me I was in a a again
a kind of a pregnant time reality of
deep time and my fmer lives were coming
in and we coming in it was like wrapping
a a filament of kite string around a
spool but that string was Human
Experience it was whole human lifetimes
and they kept coming together and they
reached a critical mass and when they
reached a critical mass they fused into
one and when that happened there was a
tremendous explosion of energy and a
diamond Luminosity exploded from my
chest and that's when I began to
understand and was
shown that we make progress
incrementally Life Time by left time as
we incarnate but the goal is not simply
to make incremental progress the goal
eventually is that all of our Lives come
infused into one and we become come on
earth a being who has aund thousand
hundreds of thousands of years of
history in it awakened within it and
empowered within it that is the being
that we are becoming and that is a
different kind of being than an egoic
being it's the vast depth of its heart
is deep is bigger the breath of its mind
is bigger the texture of its social
relationships is bigger and its
relationship to Nature is different
because it knows that the world we leave
is the world we inherit it has a deeper
embodied texture of its relationship
with
nature and my Discovery was that this is
not simply a path of individuals this is
simply a story of individual Spiritual
Awakening that we are all going through
this transition we are all giving birth
to the D Diamond Soul the entire species
is at a point in its history where it
can no longer afford the luxury of
trying to live on this planet in the
fragmented egoic State when the world
order is created by egos it leads to a
fragmented order that serves some and
not others but when the soul wakes up to
the with the profound compassion of its
history the soul lives on this planet
different ly than the ego does and I
think we are coming into a very
profound uh tumultuous period of History
which I think of as a birth process it
will feel like a death process and it is
a death process it's basically
destroying the
culture that was built by the ego and
destroying the ego which built that
culture and in that process of dying to
that which is small giving birth to
something new giving birth literally to
a new stage in the human story not a a
new body politic and new economics and a
and a a a shift I think is taking place
at the depths of the collective
unconscious the plate tectonics of the
collective psyche are shifting in that
yian sense deep deep down inside the
human psyche this transformation is
taking place so that all human beings
who are born after this transition will
be living their individual life within
the
Matrix of a different Collective
psyche that I think is the work of the
hour that's what we are working to and
part of this to actualize and part of
this is
Reawakening to the divine presence which
we've stripped out of nature tried to
unsuccessfully but reaw Awakening to
this common ground that we have with
nature to this intelligence that
surrounds us and saturates
US wow Chris I mean I'm imagining that
people hearing this for the first time
it's kind of difficult to get your head
around it and I'm want to BR I want to
bring Colin in in a minute so to
summarize in my kind of uh terms then
what you're talking about really is is
the evolution of the human species
individuals and collectively towards a
POS where we can remember our entire
history so if we take reincarnation as a
given then we're evolving towards a a
place where we can remember past our
past incarnations on this Earth and you
know I Co Colin can I bring you in here
because there's something that you uh
talk about you know in reanimating
ourselves we need to have a completely
new cognitive framework you know the the
that the the the way of connecting to
the intelligence in the universe is so
foreign to us now that we need a whole
different framework to kind of be able
to wrestle with with that kind of
information what's your feeling about
what Chris is talking about I know
you've read the book too and I know you
love it so bi biased question here but
yeah from your
perspective thanks Rachel uh well first
of all I I really wanted to say how much
of an honor it is to meet you Chris um I
I I have to say you know the encounter
with your books and the first one I
encountered was dark knight early Dawn
was was really um well tectonic in
nature for me it was um and I'm filled
with questions and was and have been all
the way through uh reading your books
and rereading them reading them again
and thinking about it and Brewing on it
and and a lot of the the questions I
really want to ask I I I have no idea
how I would even articulate I can feel
them and I can sense them but how um and
you
know so I mean I can see feel myself at
the sort of edges you know of my what I
call my present cognition because you
know I was um I was lucky enough to be
um born into and brought up within
a traditional indigenous culture here in
southern Africa um and through through
my childhood lived in Wilderness and
among people who had a very very
particular relationship with Wilderness
and a cosmology that came out of that
yeah uh and subsequently I find myself
you know in
um in in in the worlds of of uh um post
post-industrial world trying to
reconcile that part of me with the part
of me I find myself in now um and and
finding that that there's it's very
difficult to bring it feels like in a
certain sense that there are two
cognitive Frameworks within me at some
level and that somehow I'm tasked with
trying to reconcile these two parts of
myself um and reading reading through
your books I you know where I found I
found myself pulled back into
uh the cognitive system really that I I
grew up in and that forms a kind of an
underst structure within my experience
now um
and but I mean within that then I have I
have questions I mean loads of them
which which your books really really
brought up in me and and and among them
among the most um difficult to
articulate or questions around time uh
and and the notion that some how or
rather you know so reincarnation is not
something that really comes into the
cosmologies here in southern Africa and
yet it does it's it's implicit in
certain terms
um but I'm really uh um so so as we look
at this idea of
reincarnation uh and the cognitive
framework that I would perceive it from
here as we speak about it relies on a
sequence of time that speaks of a past
from which we come and a future to which
we go uh but what happens if we take
that out if in fact if in fact that's
merely my present cognitive framework
but you know how would we understand uh
reincarnation and the notion of a
trajectory towards something if time in
its kind of sequence from beginning to
seeming culmination or some such thing
if that wasn't the case um yeah I don't
know if I'm making any sense in what I
making sense it's a good question if you
uh if we eliminate the arrow of time
then reincarnation begins to look like
multi Incarnation not reincarnation some
people have conceptualized this we're
living all of our Lives
simultaneously in a and and that we're
interacting all these lives are active
and interacting in a way that befuddles
the logic of line development and it
requires a different kind of logic and
I've tried to think in that world uh
multiple times and I basically keep
coming down to I can't do it I mean I
literally cannot live in a world where
multi- Incarnation makes sense I can't
make it make sense uh now another little
thread Robert Monroe from the Monroe
Institute of Applied science outof body
guy you know has been wrote three
wonderful books on the outof body State
exploring the universe daily from the
outof body State he says you reach a
point in your Spiritual Development
where you discover that you can
incarnate in any time period you wish so
Soul forward does not mean time
forward right so you can incarnate in
the 10th Century BC and next you could
incarnate in the 20th century ad so
permeability of time
do you see how that continues the
concept of linear development but it it
flexes on the concept of times's
absolute
linearity for myself I've gone through
so many permutations of time um moving
into deep time where you can ex I I I
experienced my entire life in the early
stages birth to death simultaneously
present absolutely I was experiencing
the whole whole of my life the end and
the beginning and all of its development
as a simultaneous whole later I was
taken into periods of time where a
100,000 years were being lived out as if
it were one minute uh it's convinced me
that the Universe has many modalities of
time built into it that when we move
into deeper dimensionals of reality
there are different modalities of time
that are available
there all
that would you would think and it does
make me receptive to the idea of letting
go of a concept of linear time and
linear
development and somehow I try to
reconcile the fact that from the
universe's perspective there are
multiple modalities of time so that the
Universe can show me the future from its
time which is and can give me me the
experience of knowing the future as
something which has already happened and
simultaneously which is yet to
happen and at the same
time at the same time hold on to some
notion of the value and the challenge of
something approximating linear
development uh and I think my best take
is that life chops its its challenges to
as it chops the learning into bits and
pieces and we can't learn it all in one
lifetime we can't do it all
simultaneously it's easier if it's just
broken down into bits and
pieces uh and if this if this challenge
of linear
development is coming to a fruition and
is coming to a diamond Soul a a an
awareness that holds all of its time
moments in its present Consciousness on
Earth this this of course is not the end
of the developmental story of the linear
story because in a million years will'll
be far in a billion years will be
farther still the universe is just
getting warmed up you know is that we
have no reason for thinking that the
universe is is anywhere near the end of
its evolutionary story we know it's
really at the early stages of its
story so I think of time as one of the
great gifts of
evolution individuality is one of the
great gifts of the physical Universe
time is one of the gifts of the physical
Universe behind that lay
lies permutations of metaphysics that
that are more fluid with respect to time
but inside Space
time I think there is a an approximate
linear Arrow of time which serves the
Soul's purpose purp which serve some
deeper Cosmic web and yet at the same
time when we are in the the linear
development if we open up to the
universe if we open up to the universe's
sense of time we often get these flashes
of more than more than the present you
know
more parallel dimensions of time so your
question makes a lot of sense and it's
it's a substantive
question can I ask one Colin or do you
want to come back on
that okay so yeah great this is the
problem with your work Chris we need to
keep trying to we we're we're out in
kind of like um
inarticulable uh terrain aren't we um
when we get to that what you call the
Diamond Soul then when there's this
moment of um
remembering what what are the other
attributes what are the other kind of
what does that bring other than
remembering and wholeness you know did
you you have an experience of what
else well first of all I think Soul
Consciousness is what we return to when
we die so while we're in the Bardo Earth
Bardo Earth kind of stage when we die we
return to whole Consciousness so it's
not something we're unfamiliar with it's
something we are familiar with and then
we precipitate out of whole
Consciousness into part Consciousness
egoic Consciousness and we return so
it's a it's a constant accordion kind of
effect we die as we get large we're born
we get small we die we get large we're
born we get small sooner or later if we
just keep up for a few thousand years
years 100 million years sooner or later
large wakes up inside physical
Consciousness and so it's a it's
simply uh a consolidation of what's
taking place naturally and normally it's
just a stage in this
process the times that I've been carried
into deep time and experience
temporarily my diamond soul and then the
diamond sto the
soul that's emerging as an archetypal
imprint an archetypal
form it's hard to describe because of
the uh enormity and the beauty and the
joy
we're we're looking we're talking about
a human being that's completely healed
of all the wounds of History that's
healed of all the terrible things we've
done to each other men and women and
wars and violence it's healed all of
those scars healed a a
tremendous breath of communion with the
natural world an intimacy with all life
forms not only then a breath of
companionship with all life and with
other human beings and with human
community and with natur Nature's
Community but an openness of the Mind
able to take in more directly enter into
deeper communion with the intelligence
of the
Universe I mean the genius of the
universe has all the answers to all the
technological limited questions we we we
want to have answers to and we just are
not able to download all that knowledge
and
the diamond soul is a a more U complete
and higher potency of human being that
can enter into deeper downloads from the
Divine
intelligence but it's not only an
expansion of heart and an expansion of
Mind our physical senses are also
Amplified
by or ERS of magnitude in the very very
last session after 73 sessions the very
last session the universe gave me an
experience of what I call Diamond Vision
suddenly in a kind of a late late
session wind down clear space my vision
became thousands of times more cute and
sharper than it had ever been before I
could see things
details gradients of color sharpness and
precision of form I could just see I I
was amazed that I ever had accepted this
fuzzy stuff as real seeing this was
diamond clarity seeing and then after 10
minutes it went away and I was seeing
the way I normally see and that's when I
discovered I realized what I was being
shown is that we tend to think of
sensation as kind of a biomechanical
process but it's actually a conscious
process and the more Consciousness which
ISE is present in this body this body
has built into it the capacity for
infinitely higher levels of Sensi
experience touch hearing seeing
sensitivities of of of all manner of
physical Sensations so it truly is it's
heaven on Earth in the body so that the
body participates in the qualities of
heaven without having to leave the
physical existence this is why I mean
it's not an up andout cosmology it's
bringing it in deeper and deeper and
deeper changing literally the physiology
of the body to allow it to operate in
this ecstatic state which
becomes the normal
State yeah that as a child I think is is
worth the labor that we're going into to
give birth to and we are going in a
terribly terribly severe labor our past
is being Stripped Away will be stripped
away we will lose all capacities that we
associate with normal and minimal
existence this is what happens in all
mystical traditions in all psychedelic
Traditions literally the small has to be
broken ground to dust stripped and
dismembered in order for the new to
awaken within us and this is happening
now
historically where we're entering into
what I think of as the dark night of our
Collective
Soul The Dark Knight is an image often
used for a hard time but it's not a hard
time in John of the Cross The Dark
Knight of self is a hard time The Dark
Night of the soul is a very very intense
purification time which immediately
precedes The Awakening of full
illumination and a dark night of the of
the Collective Soul is a time of intense
purification
intense loss of reality as we have known
it up to this point in
time and I think out of the out of the
pain and suffering that's coming it's
going to crack US Open and and break us
down to our Center
and in this
ordeal we will not survive but we will
give birth to that in us which is more
beautiful more ecstatic more competent
more plugged
in uh I think we truly are becoming a
species of Buddhas a species of christs
and prophets these are the models we've
had trying to give us some for vision of
what's happening in the early years we
could not imagine
it an ordinary human being reaching that
level of Excellence but now we're
beginning to understand through
reincarnation over and over and over and
over again slowly we grow into that
level of Excellence which is simply a
level of
transparency to the essential
condition which in
which we experience
life the irony is we experience what's
always been happening all the way along
it's always been this way the universe
has always been one the universe has
always been filled with intelligence we
have always been empty of self but
somehow we distracted ourselves for
thinking that that's not there it's
always been there so we're waking up to
the Paradise that the Universe already
is we've just been missing
it wow Chris I I just find your
experience and your vision just such a
hopeful one as we move into what we see
as ecological crisis and societal crisis
and I I just again as I feel quite
emotional said at the beginning it was
just one of the most inspiring books or
the most inspiring book last year but
what what one of the most of my lifetime
you know I and I'm sure Colin would
agree with me on that so it's so
wonderful to hear